Ngo/relay ngo editor integration (#1133)
Unity-Technologies/com.unity.multiplayer.docs: docs/relay/relay.md

title: Relay
---

> You can use [Netcode for GameObjects (NGO)](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/netcode/current/about/) to use an IP address and a port to connect a client to a host. You can use the [Relay Unity Games Service (UGS)](https://docs.unity.com/ugs/en-us/manual/relay/manual/introduction) to connect multiple clients to a host that isn't on the same network.

Author: I think the official name is "Unity Relay"
```suggestion
You can use [Netcode for GameObjects (NGO)](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/netcode/current/about/) to use an IP address and a port to connect a client to a host. You can use [Unity Relay](https://docs.unity.com/ugs/en-us/manual/relay/manual/introduction) to connect multiple clients to a host that isn't on the same network.
```
If you want to mention UGS, pay attention that the acronym stands for "Unity Gam**ing** Services"

Many factors impact how you connect to the remote host. To connect to a remote host, use one of the following methods:

* Perform a NAT punch: This advanced technique directly connects to the host computer, even if it's on another network.
* Use a [Relay server](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/relay-servers): A Relay server exists on the internet with a public-facing IP that you and the host can access. After the client and the host connect to a relay server, they can send data to each other through the Relay server.

Netcode doesn't offer tools to help you punch through a NAT. However, you can use the Relay service provided by Unity Services to relay all technology based on Unity Transport, like Netcode.

# How to use Relay

To access a Relay server, the game host requires the following: 

> * An allocated relay server.

Author: I removed this suggestion from the batch because of the double o in "allocatioon", but otherwise it is good!

> * A [join code](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/join-codes). This code allows the host and clients to communicate through the Relay server without disclosing their IP addresses and ports directly.

Author: I like that the previous suggestion includes "as a host", which makes it clearer who does what. Maybe 
"As a client, use the join code provided by the host to connect to the relay server." or something similar?

## Enable Relay in a project

To enable and set up Relay in a project, follow the steps in [Get started with Relay](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/get-started).

## Test the Relay service in the Unity Editor

> From Unity version 2022.3, you can test the Relay service in the editor: 

Author: The link is the link to "Get Started with Relay" and not "Get started with NGO" ;-)

> From Unity version 2022.3, you can test the Relay service in the editor: 

Reviewer: I've changed the link in the suggestion, but doesn't the user need to setup both NGO and Relay to follow these steps?

> From Unity version 2022.3, you can test the Relay service in the editor: 

Author: We can put both :-)
Importantly, the setup described in the next line assumes that you know the basic **NGO** setup (Network Manager + something like ParrelSync). If Relay is installed but not setup, the UI will actually tell you what is wrong (typically, the project is not linked to UGS in the project settings).

1. Open the Network Manager’s inspector window. 
2. Navigate to the Start Connection section
3. Check the **Try Relay in the editor** box. 

> 4. Select **Start Server** or **Start Host** to start the server or host, or enter the [join code](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/join-codes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Start Server** or **Start Host** to start the server or host.
5. In the inspector, copy the [join code](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/join-codes).
6. Enter the join code in a new window running the same project.
7.  Select **Start Client**.
```

Author: That is clearer now!
If we apply the suggestion, let's not forget to remove the current line 32 ("5. Select Start Client.") which is not in the suggested removed lines, and let's remove the double space after "7."

Reviewer: Thanks for catching that, removed that line in another suggestion.

> 5. Select Start Client. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

This means you don’t need to create UI elements to test the Relay service.

If the connection fails then an error message appears in the UI and console.
![](/img/relay/ngo-relay-connection.png)

If Relay connects, a message appears in the inspector that displays the join code.
![](/img/relay/ngo-relay-connected.png)

You can copy the join code to share it or or test it in a project in a separate window. ([Testing Locally](../tutorials/testing/testing_locally.md).

:::note
This Relay integration is only available in the editor, which means you can't use it in a build. Instead, use the code snippets at the end of this page. These snippets use the Unity Transport Package. To do this in projects that don’t use Transport, refer to the Relay documentation.
:::

## Allocate a Relay server

> To create an [allocation](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/allocations) on a Relay, make an authenticated call to the Unity backend using the SDK. On the host, call the `CreateAllocationAsync` method with the maximum number of expected peers. For example, a host that requests a maximum of three peer connections reserves four slots for a four player game. This function can throw exceptions, which you can catch to learn about the error that caused them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an [allocation](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/allocations) on a Relay, make an authenticated call to the Unity backend using the SDK. To do this, call the `CreateAllocationAsync` method on the host with the maximum number of expected peers. For example, a host that requests a maximum of three peer connections reserves four slots for a four player game. This function can throw exceptions, which you can catch to learn about the error that caused them.
```

title: Relay
---

> You can use [Netcode for GameObjects (NGO)](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/netcode/current/about/) to use an IP address and a port to connect a client to a host. You can use [Unity Relay](https://docs.unity.com/ugs/en-us/manual/relay/manual/introduction) to connect multiple clients to a host that isn't on the same network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With [Netcode for GameObjects (NGO)](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/netcode/current/about/) you can use an IP address and a port to connect a client to a host over the internet. However, using an IP address to establish a connnection doesn't always work. Instead, use [Unity Relay](https://docs.unity.com/ugs/en-us/manual/relay/manual/introduction) to succesfully initiate a connection between multiple clients and a host.
```

Many factors impact how you connect to the remote host. To connect to a remote host, use one of the following methods:

> * Perform a NAT punch: This advanced technique directly connects to the host computer, even if it's on another network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Perform a [NAT punchthrough](../learn/listenserverhostarchitecture.md#option-c-nat-punchthrough): This advanced technique directly connects to the host computer, even if it's on another network.
```

* Use a [Relay server](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/relay-servers): A Relay server exists on the internet with a public-facing IP that you and the host can access. After the client and the host connect to a relay server, they can send data to each other through the Relay server.

Netcode doesn't offer tools to help you punch through a NAT. However, you can use the Relay service provided by Unity Services to relay all technology based on Unity Transport, like Netcode.

# How to use Relay

To access a Relay server, do the following: 
* As the host, request an allocation on the relay server.
* As a client, use the [join code](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/join-codes) that the host creates to connect to the relay server. This code allows the host and clients to communicate through the Relay server without disclosing their IP addresses and ports directly.

## Enable Relay in a project

To enable and set up Relay in a project, follow the steps in [Get started with Relay](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/get-started).

## Test the Relay service in the Unity Editor

> From Unity version 2022.3, you can test the Relay service with Netcode for GameObjects (NGO) in the editor. To  do the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From Unity version 2022.3, you can test the Relay service with Netcode for GameObjects (NGO) in the editor. To do this, do the following: 
```

* Using a [Relay server](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/relay-servers): the server is on the Internet with a public-facing IP that you and the host can reach. After each side binds with the Relay, they can establish a connection and send data to each other via the Relay server.

> Netcode doesn't offer tools to help you do a successful punch through a NAT. However, Unity Services provides a Relay service that can relay all Unity Transport based technology, like Netcode.

Author: it refers to [this](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hole_punching_(networking))

> # How does Relay work?

Author: Here I will let you free to choose whatever you think is appropriate (I am not even from the UGS teams ;-) )
I think this section was more of a "What is relay and how does it work" more than an how-to

> The host of your game will need to request a Relay allocation and get a [join code](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/join-codes) for this allocation. The join code is a random string that your clients will use to join the correct server and allocation. The host and clients will then be able to communicate via the Relay server without disclosing their IP addresses and ports directly.

Author: This section is only a high level explanation of what is happening. The actual requesting of a join code and allocation is done in the code snippets below

> The host of your game will need to request a Relay allocation and get a [join code](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/join-codes) for this allocation. The join code is a random string that your clients will use to join the correct server and allocation. The host and clients will then be able to communicate via the Relay server without disclosing their IP addresses and ports directly.

Author: Oh sorry for not answering earlier, I just saw those questions. In case no one answered for you:
1- you are trying to establish a direct connection through stuff (firewall, router...) that prevent you from making a direct connection because they translate addresses. I have zero experience with that but I think you need some help from another server or so to kind of guess what address and port you need to contact the other client on. We do not help people with that, instead we recommend to use Relay ;-) 
2- Wether you have to go through firewalls/router that translate addresses (= use NAT) makes direct (P2P) connections harder
3- I would talk about "requesting an allocation on the relay server", which is done with the line of code 
`Allocation allocation = await RelayService.Instance.CreateAllocationAsync(maxConnections);`

## How do I enable Relay for my project?

> You need to install the Unity Relay SDK if you want to interact with the service. To install it, add `com.unity.services.relay` package to your project.

Author: I have not written the original sentence, but I understood it as "make API calls to the service"

> Also what makes a unity Service different from any other package?
Mainly: with a unity service, the main functionalities are offered by a server. The package contains the code that makes it easy to use those API calls. Our services are associated to the UGS ecosystem (dashboard, projects, payments etc). Using them may incurr costs.
A typical package does not need to connect to a server to work, or at least the main logic does not require it.

I am not from the UGS team, so I would take myself as the reference to explain that ^^

You need to add the Relay Service to your organization in the Unity Dashboard (under the **Multiplayer** section). After that, link your project to your organization in the Unity Editor (**Project Settings** > **Services**).

See [Get started with Relay](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/get-started) for more detailed instructions.

> ## How do I try Relay in the Editor?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Test the Relay service in the Unity Editor
```

> If you are using Unity 2022.3 or later, you can try the Relay service directly in the editor from the inspector of the Network Manager. The workflow is similar to what you experienced in

Author: You can still use the code, but not try it directly from the inspector UI

> the [Get Started with NGO](../tutorials/get-started-with-ngo.md) page: the inspector shows buttons which start a Host, Server or Client without the need to add a UI to your game yet. The biggest difference is that starting a client requires a [join code](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/join-codes) which you can get from the host or server.

Reviewer: Do we explain how to get that join code from the host or server?

Author: Hmm it is in the snippet below (GetJoinCode). Rephrase it a bit if you think it is not clear

![](/img/relay/ngo-relay-connection.png)

You will get feedback in the UI and in the console if the connection failed. If the connection is successfully established, you will see the following message with the join code in the inspector:

![](/img/relay/ngo-relay-connected.png)

This view enables you to conveniently copy the join code so that you can share it with your colleagues, or test in a second window project (see [Testing Locally](../tutorials/testing/testing_locally.md)).

:::note
This integration is only available in the editor. You can't use it in a build. You may however use the Code Snippets at the end of this page.
They are built on the Unity Transport Package. For more advanced use-cases, please check the [Relay documentation](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/connection-data) 

:::

> ## How do I request an allocation?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Request an allocation
```

> They are built on the Unity Transport Package. For more advanced use-cases, please check the [Relay documentation](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/connection-data) 

Author: To be honest I would not know how to use Relay without UTP, there we should ask the Relay team

}
```

> ## How do I join an existing allocation?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Join an existing allocation
```

Reviewer: Just so I understand what's happening here - Is this the process of joining a game that another player is hosting on their IP address?

Author: In a way :-)
It means that you connect to the relay server to join the game, and the relay server is going to remember your IP. The IP of the host is not disclosed to the client connecting.
The typical use-case is indeed one player being the host and acting as the "game server", but it is also possible to use an actual server instead of a player.

The host of your game created a Relay allocation, and your client has received its [join code](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/join-codes). You now need to [request all the allocation parameters](https://docs.unity.com/relay/manual/connection-flow#4) from the join code to join the game. To do that, call the `JoinAllocationAsync` method with your join code like so:

```csharp
//Ask Unity Services to join a Relay allocation based on our join code
JoinAllocation allocation = await Unity.Services.Relay.RelayService.Instance.JoinAllocationAsync(joinCode);
```

## How do I pass allocation data to my transport component?

> Now that you have an allocation (either by joining or hosting), you need to make all traffic coming from Netcode go through the Relay. To achieve that, you need to pass allocation parameters to your transport. For now, only the `UnityTransport` supports the Relay protocol. To pass allocation parameters to it, you first need to retrieve it from your `NetworkManager` like so:

Reviewer: "Now that you have an allocation" - What have we allocated here? The relay server to an IP address?

Author: There is a link to the manual above. it is very short, but it mentions 

> An allocation is a request to the [Allocations service](https://docs.unity.com/ugs/en-us/manual/relay/manual/allocations-service) from the host player to reserve space on a [Relay server](https://docs.unity.com/ugs/en-us/manual/relay/manual/relay-servers) 

I understand it as "the server reserves space (and bandwidth?) to remember your IP and the ones of the other clients who connected so as to reroute all traffic". To make sure though, I would ask someone from UGS ;-)

```csharp
//Retrieve the Unity transport used by the NetworkManager
UnityTransport transport = NetworkManager.Singleton.gameObject.GetComponent<UnityTransport>();
```

You can now call the method `SetRelayServerData` on the retrieved transport by passing the allocation data that you retrieved, as well as the connection type (here set to [dtls](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/dtls-encryption)). For example:

```csharp
transport.SetRelayServerData(new RelayServerData(allocation, connectionType:"dtls"));
```

> Your transport is now configured. You can call `StartClient`, `StartHost` or `StartServer` and use the Netcode library as usual.

Author: The root page for the NGO documentation is here : https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/netcode/current/about/

> # Code Snippets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Use relay to connect to a server in code
```

Author: There are two functions:
- One enables to create a relay allocation which is kept alive by starting a host. It returns a join code that can be used by another player
- The second function takes a join code and enables another player to join a game started by a host

So I would not say it enables you to "connect to a server" (unless "StartServer" is used, as mentioned next line, to make everything more complicated). You enable players to connect, with a server in the middle.

> # Code Snippets

Author: I applied all the other suggestion, but I am not sure about this one because I think it can be misinterpreted
Maybe "Code to connect via Relay" would be more appropriate?

To join a allocated Relay server, the following must be true:
* The host of the game has created a Relay allocation.
* The client has received a join code.

To join a relay, a client requests all the allocation parameters from the join code to join the game. To do this, use the join code to call the `JoinAllocationAsync` method as the following code snippet demonstrates:

```csharp
//Ask Unity Services to join a Relay allocation based on our join code
JoinAllocation allocation = await Unity.Services.Relay.RelayService.Instance.JoinAllocationAsync(joinCode);
```
For more information about the join code connection process, refer to [Connection flow](https://docs.unity.com/relay/manual/connection-flow#4).

## Pass allocation data to a transport component

When an allocation exists, you need to make all traffic that comes from Netcode go through the Relay. To do this, perform the following actions to pass the allocation parameters to UnityTransport:
1. Retrieve Unity transport from your `NetworkManager`:
```csharp
//Retrieve the Unity transport used by the NetworkManager
UnityTransport transport = NetworkManager.Singleton.gameObject.GetComponent<UnityTransport>();
```

> 2. Call the method `SetRelayServerData` method on the retrieved transport by passing the allocation data that you retrieved, as well as the connection type (here set to [dtls](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/dtls-encryption)). For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Call the `SetRelayServerData` method on the retrieved transport by passing the allocation data that you retrieved, as well as the connection type (here set to [dtls](https://docs.unity.com/relay/en/manual/dtls-encryption)). For example:
```
